<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="lift-evry-voice-and-sing" epub:type="z3998:hymn">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lift Ev’ry Voice and Sing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Lift ev’ry voice and sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till earth and heaven ring.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ring with the harmonies of Liberty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let our rejoicing rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High as the list’ning skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let it resound loud as the rolling sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing a song full of the faith that the dark past has taught us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing a song full of the hope that the present has brought us.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing the rising sun of our new day begun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us march on till victory is won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Stony the road we trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bitter the chast’ning rod.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Felt in the days when hope unborn had died;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet with a steady beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have not our weary feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come to the place for which our fathers sighed?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We have come over a way that with tears has been watered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We have come, treading our path through the blood of the slaughtered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out from the gloomy past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till now we stand at last</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the white gleam of our bright star is cast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God of our weary years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God of our silent tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou who has brought us thus far on the way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou who has by Thy might</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Led us into the light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Keep us forever in the path, we pray.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest our feet stray from the places, our God, where we met Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest our hearts, drunk with the wine of the world, we forget Thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shadowed beneath Thy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May we forever stand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True to our God</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True to our native land.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fifty-years" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Fifty Years</h2>
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">(1863⁠–⁠1913)</h3>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">On the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Signing of the Emancipation Proclamation</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>O brothers mine, to-day we stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where half a century sweeps our ken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since God, through Lincoln’s ready hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Struck off our bonds and made us men.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just fifty years⁠—a winter’s day⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As runs the history of a race;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet, as we look back o’er the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How distant seems our starting place!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look farther back! Three centuries!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To where a naked, shivering score,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snatched from their haunts across the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood, wild-eyed, on Virginia’s shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This land is ours by right of birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This land is ours by right of toil;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We helped to turn its virgin earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our sweat is in its fruitful soil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where once the tangled forest stood⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where flourished once rank weed and thorn⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behold the path-traced, peaceful wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The cotton white, the yellow corn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To gain these fruits that have been earned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To hold these fields that have been won,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our arms have strained, our backs have burned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bent bare beneath a ruthless sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That Banner which is now the type</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of victory on field and flood⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember, its first crimson stripe</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was dyed by Attucks’ willing blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And never yet has come the cry⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When that fair flag has been assailed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For men to do, for men to die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That we have faltered or have failed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We’ve helped to bear it, rent and torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through many a hot-breath’d battle breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Held in our hands, it has been borne</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And planted far across the seas.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And never yet⁠—O haughty Land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let us, at least, for this be praised⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has one black, treason-guided hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever against that flag been raised.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then should we speak but servile words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or shall we hang our heads in shame?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand back of new-come foreign hordes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And fear our heritage to claim?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No! stand erect and without fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And for our foes let this suffice⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ve bought a rightful sonship here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we have more than paid the price.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet, my brothers, well I know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tethered feet, the pinioned wings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spirit bowed beneath the blow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The heart grown faint from wounds and stings;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The staggering force of brutish might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That strikes and leaves us stunned and dazed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The long, vain waiting through the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To hear some voice for justice raised.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Full well I know the hour when hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sinks dead, and ’round us everywhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hangs stifling darkness, and we grope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With hands uplifted in despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Courage! Look out, beyond, and see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The far horizon’s beckoning span!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Faith in your God-known destiny!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We are a part of some great plan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Because the tongues of Garrison</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Phillips now are cold in death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Think you their work can be undone?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or quenched the fires lit by their breath?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Think you that John Brown’s spirit stops?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That Lovejoy was but idly slain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or do you think those precious drops</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Lincoln’s heart were shed in vain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That for which millions prayed and sighed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That for which tens of thousands fought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For which so many freely died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God cannot let it come to naught.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To America</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How would you have us, as we are?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or sinking ’neath the load we bear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our eyes fixed forward on a star?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or gazing empty at despair?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rising or falling? Men or things?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With dragging pace or footsteps fleet?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong, willing sinews in your wings?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or tightening chains about your feet?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="o-black-and-unknown-bards" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">O Black and Unknown Bards</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O black and unknown bards of long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How came your lips to touch the sacred fire?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, in your darkness, did you come to know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The power and beauty of the minstrel’s lyre?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who first from midst his bonds lifted his eyes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who first from out the still watch, lone and long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feeling the ancient faith of prophets rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within his dark-kept soul, burst into song?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heart of what slave poured out such melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As “Steal away to Jesus”? On its strains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His spirit must have nightly floated free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though still about his hands he felt his chains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who heard great “Jordan roll”? Whose starward eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw chariot “swing low”? And who was he</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That breathed that comforting, melodic sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nobody knows de trouble I see”?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What merely living clod, what captive thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could up toward God through all its darkness grope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And find within its deadened heart to sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These songs of sorrow, love and faith, and hope?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How did it catch that subtle undertone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That note in music heard not with the ears?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How sound the elusive reed so seldom blown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which stirs the soul or melts the heart to tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not that great German master in his dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of harmonies that thundered amongst the stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the creation, ever heard a theme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobler than “Go down, Moses.” Mark its bars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How like a mighty trumpet-call they stir</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blood. Such are the notes that men have sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Going to valorous deeds; such tones there were</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That helped make history when Time was young.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is a wide, wide wonder in it all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That from degraded rest and servile toil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fiery spirit of the seer should call</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These simple children of the sun and soil.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O black slave singers, gone, forgot, unfamed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You⁠—you alone, of all the long, long line</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of those who’ve sung untaught, unknown, unnamed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have stretched out upward, seeking the divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You sang not deeds of heroes or of kings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No chant of bloody war, no exulting paean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of arms-won triumphs; but your humble strings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You touched in chord with music empyrean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sang far better than you knew; the songs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That for your listeners’ hungry hearts sufficed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still live⁠—but more than this to you belongs:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sang a race from wood and stone to Christ.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="o-southland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">O Southland!</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Southland! O Southland!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have you not heard the call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trumpet blown, the word made known</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the nations, one and all?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The watchword, the hope-word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Salvation’s present plan?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A gospel new, for all⁠—for you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Man shall be saved by man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Southland! O Southland!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do you not hear to-day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty beat of onward feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And know you not their way?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis forward, ’tis upward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On to the fair white arch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Freedom’s dome, and there is room</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For each man who would march.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Southland, fair Southland!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then why do you still cling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To an idle age and a musty page,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To a dead and useless thing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis springtime! ’Tis work-time!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The world is young again!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God’s above, and God is love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And men are only men.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Southland! my Southland!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O birthland! do not shirk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The toilsome task, nor respite ask,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But gird you for the work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember, remember</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That weakness stalks in pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he is strong who helps along</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The faint one at his side.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-horace-bumstead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Horace Bumstead</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Have you been sore discouraged in the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And even sometimes weighted by the thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That those with whom and those for whom you fought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lagged far behind, or dared but faintly smite?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that the opposing forces in their might</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of blind inertia rendered as for naught</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All that throughout the long years had been wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And powerless each blow for Truth and Right?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If so, take new and greater courage then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And think no more withouten help you stand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For sure as God on His eternal throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sits, mindful of the sinful deeds of men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">—The awful Sword of Justice in His hand⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You shall not, no, you shall not, fight alone.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-color-sergeant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Color Sergeant</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(On an Incident at the Battle of San Juan Hill)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Under a burning tropic sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With comrades around him lying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A trooper of the sable Tenth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay wounded, bleeding, dying.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>First in the charge up the fort-crowned hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His company’s guidon bearing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had rushed where the leaden hail fell fast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not death nor danger fearing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He fell in the front where the fight grew fierce,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still faithful in life’s last labor;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black though his skin, yet his heart as true</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the steel of his blood-stained saber.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And while the battle around him rolled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the roar of a sullen breaker,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He closed his eyes on the bloody scene,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And presented arms to his Maker.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There he lay, without honor or rank,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, still, in a grim-like beauty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despised of men for his humble race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet true, in death, to his duty.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-black-mammy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Black Mammy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O whitened head entwined in turban gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O kind black face, O crude, but tender hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O foster-mother in whose arms there lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The race whose sons are masters of the land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was thine arms that sheltered in their fold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was thine eyes that followed through the length</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of infant days these sons. In times of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was thy breast that nourished them to strength.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So often hast thou to thy bosom pressed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The golden head, the face and brow of snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So often has it ’gainst thy broad, dark breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lain, set off like a quickened cameo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou simple soul, as cuddling down that babe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thy sweet croon, so plaintive and so wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came ne’er the thought to thee, swift like a stab,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That it some day might crush thine own black child?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="father-father-abraham" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Father, Father Abraham</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(On the Anniversary of Lincoln’s Birth)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Father, Father Abraham,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To-day look on us from above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On us, the offspring of thy faith,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The children of thy Christ-like love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For that which we have humbly wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Give us to-day thy kindly smile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherein we’ve failed or fallen short,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bear with us, Father, yet awhile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Father, Father Abraham,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To-day we lift our hearts to thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filled with the thought of what great price</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was paid, that we might ransomed be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To-day we consecrate ourselves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Anew in hand and heart and brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To send this judgment down the years:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ransom was not paid in vain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brothers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Brothers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>See! There he stands; not brave, but with an air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sullen stupor. Mark him well! Is he</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not more like brute than man? Look in his eye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No light is there; none, save the glint that shines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the now glaring, and now shifting orbs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of some wild animal caught in the hunter’s trap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">How came this beast in human shape and form?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speak, man!⁠—We call you man because you wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His shape⁠—How are you thus? Are you not from</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That docile, child-like, tender-hearted race</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which we have known three centuries? Not from</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That more than faithful race which through three wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fed our dear wives and nursed our helpless babes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without a single breach of trust? Speak out!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">I am, and am not.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Then who, why are you?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">I am a thing not new, I am as old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As human nature. I am that which lurks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ready to spring whenever a bar is loosed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ancient trait which fights incessantly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against restraint, balks at the upward climb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weight forever seeking to obey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The law of downward pull;⁠—and I am more:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bitter fruit am I of planted seed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The resultant, the inevitable end</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of evil forces and the powers of wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Lessons in degradation, taught and learned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The memories of cruel sights and deeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pent-up bitterness, the unspent hate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filtered through fifteen generations have</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sprung up and found in me sporadic life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In me the muttered curse of dying men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On me the stain of conquered women, and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Consuming me the fearful fires of lust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lit long ago, by other hands than mine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In me the down-crushed spirit, the hurled-back prayers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wretches now long dead⁠—their dire bequests⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In me the echo of the stifled cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of children for their bartered mothers’ breasts.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">I claim no race, no race claims me; I am</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more than human dregs; degenerate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The monstrous offspring of the monster, Sin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am⁠—just what I am.⁠ ⁠… The race that fed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your wives and nursed your babes would do the same</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-day, but I⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">Enough, the brute must die!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quick! Chain him to that oak! It will resist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fire much longer than this slender pine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now bring the fuel! Pile it ’round him! Wait!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pile not so fast or high! or we shall lose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The agony and terror in his face.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now the torch! Good fuel that! the flames</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Already leap head-high. Ha! hear that shriek!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there’s another! Wilder than the first.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fetch water! Water! Pour a little on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fire, lest it should burn too fast. Hold so!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now let it slowly blaze again. See there!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He squirms! He groans! His eyes bulge wildly out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Searching around in vain appeal for help!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another shriek, the last! Watch how the flesh</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grows crisp and hangs till, turned to ash, it sifts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down through the coils of chain that hold erect</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ghastly frame against the bark-scorched tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Stop! to each man no more than one man’s share.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You take that bone, and you this tooth; the chain⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us divide its links; this skull, of course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fair division, to the leader comes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">And now his fiendish crime has been avenged;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us back to our wives and children.⁠—Say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What did he mean by those last muttered words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“<em>Brothers in spirit, brothers in deed are we</em>”?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fragment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fragment</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The hand of Fate cannot be stayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The course of Fate cannot be steered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By all the gods that man has made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor all the devils he has feared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not by the prayers that might be prayed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In all the temples he has reared.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See! In your very midst there dwell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten thousand thousand blacks, a wedge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forged in the furnaces of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sharpened to a cruel edge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By wrong and by injustice fell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And driven by hatred as a sledge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A wedge so slender at the start⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just twenty slaves in shackles bound⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet, which split the land apart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With shrieks of war and battle sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which pierced the nation’s very heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still lies cankering in the wound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not all the glory of your pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Preserved in story and in song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can from the judging future hide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through all the coming ages long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That though you bravely fought and died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You fought and died for what was wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis fixed⁠—for them that violate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The eternal laws, naught shall avail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till they their error expiate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor shall their unborn children fail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pay the full required weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into God’s great, unerring scale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Think not repentance can redeem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That sin his wages can withdraw;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, think as well to change the scheme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of worlds that move in reverent awe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgiveness is an idle dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God is not love, no, God is law.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-white-witch" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The White Witch</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O brothers mine, take care! Take care!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great white witch rides out to-night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trust not your prowess nor your strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your only safety lies in flight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For in her glance there is a snare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her smile there is a blight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The great white witch you have not seen?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, younger brothers mine, forsooth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like nursery children you have looked</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For ancient hag and snaggle-tooth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no, not so; the witch appears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In all the glowing charms of youth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her lips are like carnations, red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her face like new-born lilies, fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her eyes like ocean waters, blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She moves with subtle grace and air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all about her head there floats</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The golden glory of her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But though she always thus appears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In form of youth and mood of mirth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unnumbered centuries are hers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The infant planets saw her birth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The child of throbbing Life is she,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Twin sister to the greedy earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And back behind those smiling lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And down within those laughing eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And underneath the soft caress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hand and voice and purring sighs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shadow of the panther lurks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spirit of the vampire lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For I have seen the great white witch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she has led me to her lair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have kissed her red, red lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cruel face so white and fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around me she has twined her arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bound me with her yellow hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I felt those red lips burn and sear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My body like a living coal;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Obeyed the power of those eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the needle trembles to the pole;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And did not care although I felt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strength go ebbing from my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! she has seen your strong young limbs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And heard your laughter loud and gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in your voices she has caught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The echo of a far-off day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When man was closer to the earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she has marked you for her prey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She feels the old Antaean strength</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In you, the great dynamic beat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of primal passions, and she sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In you the last besieged retreat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of love relentless, lusty, fierce,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love pain-ecstatic, cruel-sweet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, brothers mine, take care! Take care!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great white witch rides out to-night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, younger brothers mine, beware!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look not upon her beauty bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For in her glance there is a snare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her smile there is a blight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mother-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Eternities before the first-born day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or ere the first sun fledged his wings of flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Calm Night, the everlasting and the same,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A brooding mother over chaos lay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And whirling suns shall blaze and then decay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall run their fiery courses and then claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The haven of the darkness whence they came;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back to Nirvanic peace shall grope their way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So when my feeble sun of life burns out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sounded is the hour for my long sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I shall, full weary of the feverish light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Welcome the darkness without fear or doubt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heavy-lidded, I shall softly creep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the quiet bosom of the Night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-young-warrior" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Young Warrior</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mother, shed no mournful tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But gird me on my sword;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give no utterance to thy fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bless me with thy word.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The lines are drawn! The fight is on!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A cause is to be won!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mother, look not so white and wan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give Godspeed to thy son.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now let thine eyes my way pursue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where’er my footsteps fare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when they lead beyond thy view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Send after me a prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But pray not to defend from harm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor danger to dispel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray, rather, that with steadfast arm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fight the battle well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pray, mother of mine, that I always keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart and purpose strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sword unsullied and ready to leap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unsheathed against the wrong.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-glory-of-the-day-was-in-her-face" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Glory of the Day Was in Her Face</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The glory of the day was in her face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beauty of the night was in her eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And over all her loveliness, the grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Morning blushing in the early skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in her voice, the calling of the dove;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like music of a sweet, melodious part.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her smile, the breaking light of love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the gentle virtues in her heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now the glorious day, the beauteous night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The birds that signal to their mates at dawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To my dull ears, to my tear-blinded sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are one with all the dead, since she is gone.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sonnet-from-the-spanish-of-placido" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sonnet</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(From the Spanish of Plácido)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Enough of love! Let break its every hold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ended my youthful folly! for I know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That, like the dazzling, glister-shedding snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Celia, thou art beautiful, but cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not find in thee that warmth which glows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which, all these dreary days, my heart has sought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That warmth without which love is lifeless, naught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More than a painted fruit, a waxen rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Such love as thine, scarce can it bear love’s name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deaf to the pleading notes of his sweet lyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A frank, impulsive heart I wish to claim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A heart that blindly follows its desire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wish to embrace a woman full of flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I want to kiss a woman made of fire.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="placidos-farewell-to-his-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Plácido’s Farewell to His Mother</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Written in the Chapel of the <span xml:lang="es">Hospital de Santa Cristina</span> on the Night Before His Execution)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">If the unfortunate fate engulfing me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ending of my history of grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The closing of my span of years so brief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mother, should wake a single pang in thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weep not. No saddening thought to me devote;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I calmly go to a death that is glory-filled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My lyre before it is forever stilled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breathes out to thee its last and dying note.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A note scarce more than a burden-easing sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tender and sacred, innocent, sincere⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spontaneous and instinctive as the cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gave at birth⁠—And now the hour is here⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O God, thy mantle of mercy o’er my sins!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mother, farewell! The pilgrimage begins.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="from-the-spanish" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">From the Spanish</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Twenty years go by on noiseless feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He returns, and once again they meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She exclaims, “Good heavens! and is that he?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He mutters, “My God! and that is she!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="from-the-german-of-uhland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">From the German of Uhland</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Three students once tarried over the Rhine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And into Frau Wirthin’s turned to dine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Say, hostess, have you good beer and wine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where is that pretty daughter of thine?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“My beer and wine is fresh and clear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My daughter lies on her funeral bier.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They softly tipped into the room;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She lay there in the silent gloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The first the white cloth gently raised,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tearfully upon her gazed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“If thou wert alive, O, lovely maid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart at thy feet would to-day be laid!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The second covered her face again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And turned away with grief and pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Ah, thou upon thy snow-white bier!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have loved thee so many a year.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The third drew back again the veil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kissed the lips so cold and pale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I’ve loved thee always, I love thee to-day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And will love thee, yes, forever and aye!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="before-a-painting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Before a Painting</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I knew not who had wrought with skill so fine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What I beheld; nor by what laws of art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He had created life and love and heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On canvas, from mere color, curve and line.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silent I stood and made no move or sign;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not with the crowd, but reverently apart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor felt the power my rooted limbs to start,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mutely gazed upon that face divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And over me the sense of beauty fell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As music over a raptured listener to</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The deep-voiced organ breathing out a hymn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or as on one who kneels, his beads to tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There falls the aureate glory filtered through</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The windows in some old cathedral dim.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-hear-the-stars-still-singing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Hear the Stars Still Singing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I hear the stars still singing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the beautiful, silent night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they speed with noiseless winging</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their ever westward flight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hear the waves still falling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the stretch of lonely shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the sound of a sweet voice calling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall hear, alas! no more.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="girl-of-fifteen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Girl of Fifteen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Girl of fifteen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see you each morning from my window</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As you pass on your way to school.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do more than see, I watch you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I furtively draw the curtain aside.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my heart leaps through my eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And follows you down the street;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaving me behind, half-hid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wholly ashamed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What holds me back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Half-hid behind the curtains and wholly ashamed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my forty years beyond your fifteen?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Girl of fifteen, as you pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There passes, too, a lightning flash of time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In which you lift those forty summers off my head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And take those forty winters out of my heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-suicide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Suicide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>For fifty years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cruel, insatiable Old World,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have punched me over the heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till you made me cough blood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The few paltry things I gathered</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You snatched out of my hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have knocked the cup from my thirsty lips.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have laughed at my hunger of body and soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You look at me now and think,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He is still strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There ought to be twenty more years of good punching there.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the end of that time he will be old and broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not able to strike back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But cringing and crying for leave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To live a little longer.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Those twenty, pitiful, extra years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would please you more than the fifty past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would they not, Old World?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well, I hold them up before your greedy eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And snatch them away as I laugh in your face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ha! Ha!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bang⁠—!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="down-by-the-carib-sea" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Down by the Carib Sea</h2>
			<section id="down-by-the-carib-sea-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Sunrise in the Tropics</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Sol, Sol, mighty lord of the tropic zone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here I wait with the trembling stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see thee once more take thy throne.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There the patient palm tree watching</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waits to say, “Good morn” to thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a throb of expectation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pulses through the earth and me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, o’er nature falls a hush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look! the East is all a-blush;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a growing crimson crest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dims the late stars in the west;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, a flood of golden light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeps across the silver night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swift the pale moon fades away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the light-girt King of Day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See! the miracle is done!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once more behold! The Sun!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="down-by-the-carib-sea-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title" xml:lang="es">Los Cigarillos</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>This is the land of the dark-eyed <i xml:lang="es">gente</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dolce far niente,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where we dream away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both the night and day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At night-time in sleep our dreams we invoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our dreams come by day through the redolent smoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As it lazily curls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slowly unfurls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From our lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of our fragrant cigarillos.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For life in the tropics is only a joke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we pass it in dreams, and we pass it in smoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smoke⁠—smoke⁠—smoke.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Tropical constitutions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Call for occasional revolutions;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But after that’s through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why there’s nothing to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But smoke⁠—smoke;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For life in the tropics is only a joke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we pass it in dreams, and we pass it in smoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smoke⁠—smoke⁠—smoke.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="down-by-the-carib-sea-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title" xml:lang="es">Teestay</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Of tropic sensations, the worst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is, <i xml:lang="es">sin duda</i>, the tropical thirst.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When it starts in your throat and constantly grows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till you feel that it reaches down to your toes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When your mouth tastes like fur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your tongue turns to dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s but one thing to do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And do it you must,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drink <i xml:lang="es">teestay</i>.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><i xml:lang="es">Teestay</i>, a drink with a history,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A delicious, delectable mystery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<i xml:lang="es">Cinco centavos el vaso, señor</i>,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you take one, you will surely want more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><i xml:lang="es">Teestay, teestay</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The national drink on a feast day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How it coolingly tickles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As downward it trickles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="es">Teestay, teestay</i>.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And you wish, as you take it down at a quaff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That your neck was constructed à la giraffe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="es">Teestay, teestay</i>.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="down-by-the-carib-sea-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Lottery Girl</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>“Lottery, lottery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take a chance at the lottery?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take a ticket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, better, take two;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows what the future</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May hold for you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lottery, lottery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take a chance at the lottery?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, limpid-eyed girl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would take every chance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If only the prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were a love-flashing glance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your fathomless eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Lottery, lottery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Try your luck at the lottery?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider the size</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the capital prize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And take tickets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the lottery.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tickets, señor? Tickets, señor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take a chance at the lottery?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, crimson-lipped girl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the magical smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would count that the gamble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were well worth the while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a chance would I miss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If only the prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were a honey-bee kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gathered in sips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From those full-ripened lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a love-flashing glance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your eyes.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="down-by-the-carib-sea-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Dancing Girl</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Do you know what it is to dance?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps, you do know, in a fashion;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But by dancing I mean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not what’s generally seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But dancing of fire and passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fire and delirious passion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With a dusky-haired señorita,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her dark, misty eyes near your own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her scarlet-red mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a rose of the south,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reddest that ever was grown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So close that you catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her quick-panting breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As across your own face it is blown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a sigh, and a moan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! that is dancing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As here by the Carib it’s known.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, whirling and twirling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like furies we go;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, soft and caressing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sinuously slow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an undulating motion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like waves on a breeze-kissed ocean:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the scarlet-red mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is nearer your own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dark, misty eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still softer have grown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! that is dancing, that is loving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As here by the Carib they’re known.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="down-by-the-carib-sea-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Sunset in the Tropics</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>A silver flash from the sinking sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a shot of crimson across the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, bursting, lets a thousand colors fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And riot among the clouds; they run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deepening in purple, flaming in gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Changing, and opening fold after fold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then fading through all of the tints of the rose into gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, taking quick fright at the coming night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They rush out down the west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hurried quest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the fleeing day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now above where the tardiest color flares a moment yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One point of light, now two, now three are set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To form the starry stairs⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, in her fire-fly crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Queen Night, on velvet slippered feet, comes softly down.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="and-the-greatest-of-these-is-war" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">And the Greatest of These Is War</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Around the council-board of Hell, with Satan at their head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Three Great Scourges of humanity sat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaunt Famine, with hollow cheek and voice, arose and spoke⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O, Prince, I have stalked the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my victims by ten thousands I have slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have smitten old and young.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mouths of the helpless old moaning for bread, I have filled with dust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have laughed to see a crying babe tug at the shriveling breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of its mother, dead and cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have heard the cries and prayers of men go up to a tearless sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fall back upon an earth of ashes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, heedless, I have gone on with my work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis thus, O, Prince, that I have scourged mankind.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Satan nodded his head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pale Pestilence, with stenchful breath, then spoke and said⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Great Prince, my brother, Famine, attacks the poor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is most terrible against the helpless and the old.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I have made a charnel-house of the mightiest cities of men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I strike, neither their stores of gold or of grain avail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a breath I lay low their strongest, and wither up their fairest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I come upon them without warning, lancing invisible death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From me they flee with eyes and mouths distended;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I poison the air for which they gasp, and I strike them down fleeing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis thus, great Prince, that I have scourged mankind.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Satan nodded his head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the red monster, War, rose up and spoke⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His blood-shot eyes glared ’round him, and his thundering voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Echoed through the murky vaults of Hell.⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O, mighty Prince, my brothers, Famine and Pestilence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have slain their thousands and ten thousands⁠—true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the greater their victories have been,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The more have they wakened in Man’s breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The God-like attributes of sympathy, of brotherhood and love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And made of him a searcher after wisdom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I arouse in Man the demon and the brute,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I plant black hatred in his heart and red revenge.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the summit of fifty thousand years of upward climb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I haul him down to the level of the start, back to the wolf.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I give him claws.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I set his teeth into his brother’s throat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I make him drunk with his brother’s blood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I laugh ho! ho! while he destroys himself.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, mighty Prince, not only do I slay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I draw Man hellward.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Satan smiled, stretched out his hand, and said⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O War, of all the scourges of humanity, I crown you chief.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Hell rang with the acclamation of the Fiends.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-mid-day-dreamer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Mid-Day Dreamer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I love to sit alone, and dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dream, and dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fancy’s boat to softly glide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along some stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where fairy palaces of gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crystal bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand all along the glistening shore:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wondrous sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My craft is built of ivory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With silver oars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sails are spun of golden threads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And priceless stores</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of precious gems adorn its prow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’round its mast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An hundred silken cords are set</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hold it fast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My galley-slaves are sprightly elves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who, as they row,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as their shining oars they swing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them to and fro,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Keep time to music wafted on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scented air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Made by the mermaids as they comb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their golden hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I the while lie idly back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dream, and dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let them row me where they will</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adown the stream.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-temptress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Temptress</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Old Devil, when you come with horns and tail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With diabolic grin and crafty leer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I say, such bogey-man devices wholly fail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To waken in my heart a single fear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when you wear a form I know so well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A form so human, yet so near divine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis then I fall beneath the magic of your spell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis then I know the vantage is not mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! when you take your horns from off your head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soft and fragrant hair is in their place;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I must admit I fear the tangled path I tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When that dear head is laid against my face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And at what time you change your baleful eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For stars that melt into the gloom of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All of my courage, my dear fellow, quickly flies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know my chance is slim to win the fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when, instead of charging down to wreck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Me on a red-hot pitchfork in your hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You throw a pair of slender arms about my neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I dare not trust the ground on which I stand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whene’er in place of using patent wile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or trying to frighten me with horrid grin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You tempt me with two crimson lips curved in a smile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Devil, I must really own, you win.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ghosts-of-the-old-year" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ghosts of the Old Year</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The snow has ceased its fluttering flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wind sunk to a whisper light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An ominous stillness fills the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A pause⁠—a hush.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At last, a sound that breaks the spell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud, clanging mouthings of a bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That through the silence peal and swell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And roll, and rush.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What does this brazen tongue declare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That falling on the midnight air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brings to my heart a sense of care</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Akin to fright?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis telling that the year is dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The New Year come, the Old Year fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another leaf before me spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On which to write.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It tells the deeds that were not done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It tells of races never run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of victories that were not won,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Barriers unleaped.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It tells of many a squandered day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of slighted gems and treasured clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of precious stores not laid away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of fields unreaped.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And so the years go swiftly by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each, coming, brings ambitions high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each, departing, leaves a sigh</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Linked to the past.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Large resolutions, little deeds;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus, filled with aims unreached, life speeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the blotted record reads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Failure!” at last.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ghost-of-deacon-brown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ghost of Deacon Brown</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In a backwoods town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lived Deacon Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he was a miser old;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He would trust no bank,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he dug, and sank</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the ground a box of gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down deep in the ground a box of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He hid his gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As has been told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He remembered that he did it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But sad to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the very next day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He forgot just where he hid it:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find his gold he tried and tried</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he grew faint and sick, and died.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then on each dark and gloomy night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A form in phosphorescent white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A genuine hair-raising sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would wander through the town.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as it slowly roamed around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a spade it dug each foot of ground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the folks about</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said there was no doubt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas the ghost of Deacon Brown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Around the church</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Ghost would search,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And whenever it would see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The passers-by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take wings and fly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It would laugh in ghostly glee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hee, hee!⁠—it would laugh in ghostly glee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And so the town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went quickly down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they said that it was haunted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And doors and gates,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the story states,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bore a notice, “Tenants wanted.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the town is now for let,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the ghost is digging yet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lazy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Lazy”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Some men enjoy the constant strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of days with work and worry rife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that is not my dream of life:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I think such men are crazy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For me, a life with worries few,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A job of nothing much to do,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just pelf enough to see me through:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I fear that I am lazy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On winter mornings cold and drear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When six o’clock alarms I hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis then I love to shift my ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And hug my downy pillows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When in the shade it’s ninety-three,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No job in town looks good to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d rather loaf down by the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And watch the foaming billows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some people think the world’s a school,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where labor is the only rule;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I’ll not make myself a mule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And don’t you ever doubt it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know that work may have its use,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But still I feel that’s no excuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For turning it into abuse;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What do <em>you</em> think about it?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let others fume and sweat and boil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scratch and dig for golden spoil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And live the life of work and toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their lives to labor giving.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But what is gold when life is sped,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life is short, as has been said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we are such a long time dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ll spend my life in living.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="omar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Omar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Old Omar, jolly sceptic, it may be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That, after all, you found the magic key</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To life and all its mystery, and I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must own you have almost persuaded me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="deep-in-the-quiet-wood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Deep in the Quiet Wood</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Are you bowed down in heart?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do you but hear the clashing discords and the din of life?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then come away, come to the peaceful wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here bathe your soul in silence. Listen! Now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From out the palpitating solitude</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do you not catch, yet faint, elusive strains?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are above, around, within you, everywhere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silently listen! Clear, and still more clear, they come.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They bubble up in rippling notes, and swell in singing tones.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now let your soul run the whole gamut of the wondrous scale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until, responsive to the tonic chord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It touches the diapason of God’s grand cathedral organ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filling earth for you with heavenly peace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And holy harmonies.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="voluptas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Voluptas</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To chase a never-reached mirage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the hot, white sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And choke and die, while gazing on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its green and watered strand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-word-of-an-engineer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Word of an Engineer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“She’s built of steel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From deck to keel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bolted strong and tight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In scorn she’ll sail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fiercest gale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pierce the darkest night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“The builder’s art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has proved each part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Throughout her breadth and length;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep in the hulk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of her mighty bulk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten thousand Titans’ strength.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tempest howls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Ice Wolf prowls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The winds they shift and veer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But calm I sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And faith I keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the word of an engineer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Along the trail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the slender rail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The train, like a nightmare, flies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dashes on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the black-mouthed yawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the cavernous tunnel lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Over the ridge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the bridge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swung twixt the sky and hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On an iron thread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spun from the head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the man in a draughtsman’s cell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And so we ride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over land and tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without a thought of fear⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>Man never had</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>The faith in God</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>That he has in an engineer!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Life</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Out of the infinite sea of eternity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To climb, and for an instant stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon an island speck of time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the impassible peace of the darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wake, and blink at the garish light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through one short hour of fretfulness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sleep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sleep</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Sleep, thou kindest minister to man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silent distiller of the balm of rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How wonderful thy power, when naught else can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To soothe the torn and sorrow-laden breast!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When bleeding hearts no comforter can find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When burdened souls droop under weight of woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thought is torture to the troubled mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When grief-relieving tears refuse to flow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis then thou comest on soft-beating wings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sweet oblivion’s peace from them is shed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah, the old pain that the waking brings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That lives again so soon as thou art fled!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Man, why should thought of death cause thee to weep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since death be but an endless, dreamless sleep?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer-at-sunrise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer at Sunrise</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O mighty, powerful, dark-dispelling sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now thou art risen, and thy day begun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How shrink the shrouding mists before thy face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As up thou spring’st to thy diurnal race!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How darkness chases darkness to the west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As shades of light on light rise radiant from thy crest!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee, great source of strength, emblem of might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In hours of darkest gloom there is no night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou shinest on though clouds hide thee from sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through each break thou sendest down thy light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O greater Maker of this Thy great sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give me the strength this one day’s race to run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fill me with light, fill me with sun-like strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fill me with joy to rob the day its length.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Light from within, light that will outward shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strength to make strong some weaker heart than mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joy to make glad each soul that feels its touch;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great Father of the sun, I ask this much.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-gift-to-sing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Gift to Sing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sometimes the mist overhangs my path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blackening clouds about me cling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, oh, I have a magic way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To turn the gloom to cheerful day⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I softly sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if the way grows darker still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shadowed by Sorrow’s somber wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With glad defiance in my throat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I pierce the darkness with a note,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sing, and sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I brood not over the broken past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor dread whatever time may bring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No nights are dark, no days are long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While in my heart there swells a song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I can sing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="morning-noon-and-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Morning, Noon and Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When morning shows her first faint flush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think of the tender blush</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That crept so gently to your cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When first my love I dared to speak;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, in your glance, a dawning ray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gave promise of love’s perfect day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When, in the ardent breath of noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The roses with passion swoon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There steals upon me from the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scent that lurked within your hair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I touch your hand, I clasp your form⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again your lips are close and warm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When comes the night with beauteous skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think of your tear-dimmed eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their mute entreaty that I stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although your lips sent me away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then falls memory’s bitter blight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dark⁠—so dark becomes the night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="her-eyes-twin-pools" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Her Eyes Twin Pools</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her eyes, twin pools of mystic light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blend of star-sheen and black night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er which, to sound their glamouring haze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man might bend, and vainly gaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her eyes, twin pools so dark and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In which life’s ancient mysteries sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherein, to seek the quested goal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man might plunge, and lose his soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-awakening" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Awakening</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I dreamed that I was a rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That grew beside a lonely way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Close by a path none ever chose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there I lingered day by day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath the sunshine and the show’r</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I grew and waited there apart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gathering perfume hour by hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And storing it within my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet, never knew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just why I waited there and grew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I dreamed that you were a bee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That one day gaily flew along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You came across the hedge to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sang a soft, love-burdened song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You brushed my petals with a kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I woke to gladness with a start,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yielded up to you in bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The treasured fragrance of my heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then I knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I had waited there for you.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="beauty-that-is-never-old" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Beauty That Is Never Old</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When buffeted and beaten by life’s storms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When by the bitter cares of life oppressed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want no surer haven than your arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want no sweeter heaven than your breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When over my life’s way there falls the blight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sunless days, and nights of starless skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough for me, the calm and steadfast light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That softly shines within your loving eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The world, for me, and all the world can hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is circled by your arms; for me there lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within the lights and shadows of your eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The only beauty that is never old.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="venus-in-a-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Venus in a Garden</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas at early morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dawn was blushing in her purple bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When in a sweet, embowered garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She, the fairest of the goddesses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lovely Venus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Roamed amongst the roses white and red.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sought for flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make a garland</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her golden head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Snow-white roses, blood-red roses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that sweet garden close,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Offered incense to the goddess:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both the white and the crimson rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White roses, red roses, blossoming:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the fair Venus knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crimson roses had gained their hue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the hearts that for love had bled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the goddess made a garland</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gathered from the roses red.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="vashti" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Vashti</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I sometimes take you in my dreams to a far-off land I used to know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back in the ages long ago; a land of palms and languid streams.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A land, by night, of jeweled skies, by day, of shores that glistened bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within whose arms, outstretched and white, a sapphire sea lay crescent-wise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where twilight fell like silver floss, where rose the golden moon half-hid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind a shadowy pyramid; a land beneath the Southern Cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And there the days dreamed in their flight, each one a poem chanted through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which at its close was merged into the muted music of the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you were a princess in those days. And I⁠—I was your serving lad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But who ever served with heart so glad, or lived so for a word of praise?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if that word you chanced to speak, how all my senses swayed and reeled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till low beside your feet I kneeled, with happiness o’erwrought and weak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If, when your golden cup I bore, you deigned to lower your eyes to mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eyes cold, yet fervid, like the wine, I knew not how to wish for more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I trembled at the thought to dare to gaze upon, to scrutinize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The deep-sea mystery of your eyes, the sun-lit splendor of your hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To let my timid glances rest upon you long enough to note</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How fair and slender was your throat, how white the promise of your breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But though I did not dare to chance a lingering look, an open gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon your beauty’s blinding rays, I ventured many a stolen glance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I fancy, too, (but could not state what trick of mind the fancy caused)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At times your eyes upon me paused, and marked my figure lithe and straight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once when my eyes met yours it seemed that in your cheek, despite your pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A flush arose and swiftly died; or was it something that I dreamed?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Within your radiance like the star of morning, there I stood and served,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Close by, unheeded, unobserved. You were so near, and, yet, so far.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! just to stretch my hand and touch the musky sandals on your feet!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My breaking heart! of rapture sweet it never could have held so much.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, beauty-haunted memory! Your face so proud, your eyes so calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your body like a slim young palm, and sinuous as a willow tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Caught up beneath your slender arms, and girdled ’round your supple waist,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A robe of curious silk that graced, but only scarce concealed your charms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A golden band about your head, a crimson jewel at your throat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which, when the sunlight on it smote, turned to a living heart and bled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But, oh, that mystic bleeding stone, that work of Nature’s magic art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which mimicked so a wounded heart, could never bleed as did my own!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now after ages long and sad, in this stern land we meet anew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more a princess proud are you, and I⁠—I am no serving lad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet, dividing us, I meet a wider gulf than that which stood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between a princess of the blood and him who served low at her feet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-reward" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Reward</h2>
			<p>
				<span>No greater earthly boon than this I crave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That those who some day gather ’round my grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In place of tears, may whisper of me then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“He sang a song that reached the hearts of men.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sence-you-went-away" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sence You Went Away</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Seems lak to me de stars don’t shine so bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me de sun done loss his light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me der’s nothin’ goin’ right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sence you went away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Seems lak to me de sky ain’t half so blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me dat ev’ything wants you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me I don’t know what to do,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sence you went away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Seems lak to me dat ev’ything is wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me de day’s jes twice as long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me de bird’s forgot his song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sence you went away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Seems lak to me I jes can’t he’p but sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me ma th’oat keeps gittin’ dry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems lak to me a tear stays in ma eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sence you went away.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ma-ladys-lips-am-like-de-honey" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ma Lady’s Lips Am Like de Honey</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Negro Love Song)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Breeze a-sighin’ and a-blowin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Southern summer night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stars a-gleamin’ and a-glowin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Moon jes shinin’ right.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strollin’, like all lovers do,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down de lane wid Lindy Lou;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honey on her lips to waste;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Speck I’m gwine to steal a taste.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Oh, ma lady’s lips am like de honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s lips am like de rose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ I’m jes like de little bee a-buzzin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Round de flower wha’ de nectah grows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s lips dey smile so temptin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s teeth so white dey shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, ma lady’s lips so tantalizin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s lips so close to mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bird a-whistlin’ and a-swayin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In de live-oak tree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems to me he keeps a-sayin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Kiss dat gal fo’ me.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look heah, Mister Mockin’ Bird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gwine to take you at yo’ word;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I meets ma Waterloo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gwine to blame it all on you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Oh, ma lady’s lips am like de honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s lips am like de rose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ I’m jes like de little bee a-buzzin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Round de flower wha’ de nectah grows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s lips dey smile so temptin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s teeth so white dey shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, ma lady’s lips so tantalizin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ma lady’s lips so close to mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Honey in de rose, I spose, is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put der fo’ de bee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honey on her lips, I knows, is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put der jes fo’ me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seen a sparkle in her eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heard her heave a little sigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Felt her kinder squeeze ma han’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Nuff to make me understan’.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tunk" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tunk</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(A Lecture on Modern Education)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Look heah, Tunk!⁠—Now, ain’t dis awful! T’ought I sont you off to school.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you know dat you is growin’ up to be a reg’lah fool?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whah’s dem books dat I’s done bought you? Look heah, boy, you tell me quick,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whah’s dat Webster blue-back spellah an’ dat bran’ new ’rifmatic?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’ile I’m t’inkin’ you is lahnin’ in de school, why bless ma soul!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You off in de woods a-playin’. Can’t you do like you is tole?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Boy, I tell you, it’s jes scan’lous d’way dat you is goin’ on.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ you sholy go’n be sorry, jes as true as you is bo’n.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heah I’m tryin’ hard to raise you as a credit to dis race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ you tryin’ heap much harder fu’ to come up in disgrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dese de days w’en men don’t git up to de top by hooks an’ crooks;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell you now, dey’s got to git der standin’ on a pile o’ books.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en you sees a darkey goin’ to de fiel’ as soon as light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Followin’ a mule across it f’om de mawnin’ tel de night,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wukin’ all his life fu’ vittles, hoein’ ’tween de cott’n rows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en he knocks off ole an’ tiah’d, ownin’ nut’n but his clo’es,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You kin put it down to ignunce, aftah all what’s done an’ said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You kin bet dat dat same darkey ain’t got nut’n in his head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ain’t you seed dem w’ite men set’n in der awfice? Don’t you know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dey goes der ’bout nine each mawnin? Bless yo’ soul, dey’s out by fo’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dey jes does a little writin’; does dat by some easy means;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gals jes set an’ play piannah on dem printin’ press muchines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Chile, dem men knows how to figgah, how to use dat little pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ dey knows dat blue-back spellah f’om beginnin’ to de en’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dat’s de ’fect of education; dat’s de t’ing what’s gwine to rule;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git dem books, you lazy rascal! Git back to yo’ place in school!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nobodys-lookin-but-de-owl-and-de-moon" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Nobody’s Lookin’ but de Owl and de Moon</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(A Negro Serenade)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>De river is a-glistenin’ in de moonlight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De owl is set’n high up in de tree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De little stars am twinklin’ wid a sof’ light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De night seems only jes fu’ you an’ me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thoo de trees de breezes am a-sighin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breathin’ out a sort o’ lover’s croon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Der’s nobody lookin’ or a-spyin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody but de owl an’ de moon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nobody’s lookin’ but de owl an’ de moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de night is balmy; fu’ de month is June;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come den, Honey, won’t you? Come to meet me soon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wile nobody’s lookin’ but de owl an’ de moon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I feel so kinder lonely all de daytime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems I raly don’t know what to do;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I jes keep sort a-longin’ fu’ de night-time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Cause den I know dat I can be wid you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de thought jes sets my brain a-swayin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ my heart a-beatin’ to a tune;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, de owl won’t tell w’at we’s a-sayin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ cose you know we kin trus’ de moon.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="yous-sweet-to-yo-mammy-jes-de-same" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">You’s Sweet to Yo’ Mammy Jes de Same</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Lullaby)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Shet yo’ eyes, ma little pickaninny, go to sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mammy’s watchin’ by you all de w’ile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daddy is a-wukin’ down in de cott’n fiel’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wukin’ fu’ his little honey child.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ yo’ mammy’s heart is jes a-brimmin’ full o’ lub</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fu’ you f’om yo’ head down to yo’ feet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, no mattah w’at some othah folks may t’ink o’ you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To yo’ mammy’s heart you’s mighty sweet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You’s sweet to yo’ mammy jes de same;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dat’s why she calls you Honey fu’ yo’ name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yo’ face is black, dat’s true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ yo’ hair is woolly, too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, you’s sweet to yo’ mammy jes de same.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Up der in de big house w’ere dey lib so rich an’ gran’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dey’s got chillen dat dey lubs, I s’pose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chillen dat is purty, oh, but dey can’t lub dem mo’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dan yo’ mammy lubs you, heaben knows!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dey may t’ink you’s homely, an’ yo’ clo’es dey may be po’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But yo’ shinin’ eyes, dey hol’s a light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dat, my Honey, w’en you opens dem so big an’ roun’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes you lubly in yo’ mammy’s sight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-plantation-bacchanal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Plantation Bacchanal</h2>
			<p>
				<span>W’en ole Mister Sun gits tiah’d a-hangin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High up in de sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en der ain’t no thunder and light’nin’ a-bangin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de crap’s done all laid by;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en yo’ bones ain’t achin’ wid de rheumatics,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Den yo’ ride de mule to town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git a great big jug o’ de ole corn juice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ w’en you drink her down⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Jes lay away ole Trouble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">An’ dry up all yo’ tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Yo’ pleasure sho’ to double</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">An’ you bound to lose yo’ keers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Jes lay away ole Sorrer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">High upon de shelf;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And never mind to-morrer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">’Twill take care of itself.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en ole Mister Age begins a-stealin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thoo yo’ back an’ knees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en yo’ bones an’ jints lose der limber feelin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ am stiff’nin’ by degrees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now der’s jes one way to feel young and spry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en you heah dem banjos soun’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git a great big swig o’ de ole corn juice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ w’en you drink her down⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Jes lay away ole Trouble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">An’ dry up all yo’ tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Yo’ pleasure sho’ to double</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">An’ you bound to lose yo’ keers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Jes lay away ole Sorrer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">High upon de shelf;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And never mind to-morrer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">’Twill take care of itself.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="july-in-georgy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">July in Georgy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I’m back down in ole Georgy w’ere de sun is shinin’ hot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’ere de cawn it is a-tasslin’, gittin’ ready fu’ de pot;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’ere de cott’n is a-openin’ an’ a-w’itenin’ in de sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de ripenin’ o’ de sugah-cane is mighty nigh begun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ de locus’ is a-singin’ f’om eveh bush an’ tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ you kin heah de hummin’ o’ de noisy bumblebee;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ de mule he stan’s a-dreamin’ an’ a-dreamin’ in de lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de sun it is a-shinin’ mighty hot, hot, hot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But evehbody is a-restin’, fu’ de craps is all laid by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ time fu’ de camp-meetin’ is a-drawin’ purty nigh;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ we’s put away de ploughshare, an’ we’s done hung up de spade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ we’s eatin’ watermelon, an’ a-layin’ in de shade.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-banjo-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Banjo Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>W’en de banjos wuz a-ringin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de darkies wuz a-singin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, wuzen dem de good times sho!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All de ole folks would be chattin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de pickaninnies pattin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As dey heah’d de feet a-shufflin’ ’cross de flo’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ how we’d dance, an’ how we’d sing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dance tel de day done break.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ how dem banjos dey would ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de cabin flo’ would shake!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come along, come along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come along, come along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you heah dem banjos a-ringin’?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gib a song, gib a song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gib a song, gib a song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git yo’ feet fixed up fu’ a-wingin’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’ile de banjos dey go plunka, plunka, plunk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ll dance tel de ole flo’ shake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’ile de feet keep a-goin’ chooka, chooka, chook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ll dance tel de day done break.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="answer-to-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Answer to Prayer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Der ain’t no use in sayin’ de Lawd won’t answer prah;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you knows how to ax Him, I knows He’s bound to heah.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>De trouble is, some people don’t ax de proper way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Den w’en dey git’s no answer dey doubts de use to pray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You got to use egzac’ly de ’spressions an’ de words</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To show dat ’tween yo’ faith an’ works, you ’pends on works two-thirds.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, one time I remember⁠—jes how long I won’t say⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought I’d like a turkey to eat on Chris’mus day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fu’ weeks I dreamed ’bout turkeys, a-struttin’ in der pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But seed no way to get one⁠—widout de Lawd pervide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ so I went to prayin’, I pray’d wid all my might;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lawd, sen’ <em>to</em> me a turkey.” I pray’d bofe day an’ night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Lawd, sen’ <em>to</em> me a turkey, a big one if you please.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ’clar to heaben I pray’d so much I mos’ wore out ma knees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I pray’d dat prah so often, I pray’d dat prah so long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet didn’t git no turkey, I know’d ’twas sump’n wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So on de night ’fore Chris’mus w’en I got down to pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Lawd, sen’ <em>me</em> to a turkey,” I had de sense to say.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Lawd, sen’ <em>me</em> to a turkey.” I know dat prah was right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ it was sholy answer’d; I got de bird dat night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dat-gal-o-mine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dat Gal o’ Mine</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Skin as black an’ jes as sof’ as a velvet dress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Teeth as white as ivory⁠—well dey is I guess.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Eyes dat’s jes as big an’ bright as de evenin’ star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ dat hol’ some sort o’ light lublier by far.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hair don’t hang ’way down her back; plaited up in rows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wid de two en’s dat’s behin’ tied wid ribben bows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Han’s dat raly wuz’n made fu’ hard work, I’m sho’;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got a little bit o’ foot; weahs a numbah fo’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You jes oughtah see dat gal Sunday’s w’en she goes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To de Baptis’ meetin’ house, dressed in her bes’ clo’es.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en she puts her w’ite dress on an’ othah things so fine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now, Su’, don’t you know I’m proud o’ dat gal o’ mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-seasons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Seasons</h2>
			<p>
				<span>W’en de leaves begin to fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de fros’ is on de ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de ’simmons is a-ripenin’ on de tree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en I heah de dinner call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de chillen gadder ’round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis den de ’possum is de meat fu’ me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en de wintertime am pas’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de spring is come at las’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en de good ole summer sun begins to shine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! my thoughts den tek a turn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ my heart begins to yearn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fo’ dat watermelon growin’ on de vine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, de yeah will sholy bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Round a season fu’ us all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ev’y one kin pick his season f’om de res’;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But de melon in de spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ de ’possum in de fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mek it hard to tell which time o’ year am bes’.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="possum-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">’Possum Song</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(A Warning)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>’Simmons ripenin’ in de fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brudder ’Possum, run!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mockin’ bird commence to call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run, Brudder ’Possum, git out de way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run, Brudder ’Possum, git out de way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run some whar an’ hide!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ole moon am sinkin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down behin’ de tree.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ole Eph am thinkin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ chuckelin’ wid glee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ole Tige am blinkin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ frisky as kin be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yo’ chances, Brudder ’Possum,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look mighty slim to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Run, run, run, I tell you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run, Brudder ’Possum, run!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run, run, run, I tell you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ole Eph’s got a gun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pickaninnies grinnin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waitin’ fu’ to see de fun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run, Brudder ’Possum, git out de way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run, Brudder ’Possum, run!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brudder ’Possum take a tip;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brudder ’Possum, run!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tain’t no use in actin’ flip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run, Brudder ’Possum, git out de way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run, Brudder ’Possum, git out de way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run some whar an’ hide.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dey’s gwine to houn’ you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All along de line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en dey done foun’ you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Den what’s de use in sighin’?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wid taters roun’ you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sholy would tase fine⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So listen, Brudder ’Possum,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better be a-flyin’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Run, run, run, I tell you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run, Brudder ’Possum, run!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run, run, run, I tell you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ole Eph’s got a gun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pickaninnies grinnin’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waitin’ fu’ to see de fun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You better run, Brudder ’Possum, git out de way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Run, Brudder ’Possum, run!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brer-rabbit-yous-de-cutes-of-em-all" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Brer Rabbit, You’s de Cutes’ of ’Em All</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Once der was a meetin’ in de wilderness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All de critters of creation dey was dar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Rabbit, Brer ’Possum, Brer Wolf, Brer Fox,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>King Lion, Mister Terrapin, Mister B’ar.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De question fu’ discussion was, “Who is de bigges’ man?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dey ’pinted ole Jedge Owl to decide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He polished up his spectacles an’ put ’em on his nose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ to the question slowly he replied:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Brer Wolf am mighty cunnin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Fox am mighty sly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Terrapin an’ ’Possum⁠—kinder small;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Lion’s mighty vicious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer B’ar he’s sorter ’spicious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Rabbit, you’s de cutes’ of ’em all.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dis caused a great confusion ’mongst de animals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ev’y critter claimed dat he had won de prize;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dey ’sputed an’ dey arg’ed, dey growled an’ dey roared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Den putty soon de dus’ begin to rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brer Rabbit he jes’ stood aside an’ urged ’em on to fight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Lion he mos’ tore Brer B’ar in two;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en dey was all so tiahd dat dey couldn’t catch der bref</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Rabbit he jes’ grabbed de prize an’ flew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brer Wolf am mighty cunnin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Fox am mighty sly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Terrapin an’ Possum⁠—kinder small;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Lion’s mighty vicious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer B’ar he’s sorter ’spicious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brer Rabbit, you’s de cutes’ of ’em all.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-explanation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Explanation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Look heah! ’Splain to me de reason</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why you said to Squire Lee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Der wuz twelve ole chicken thieves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In dis heah town, includin’ me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ef he tole you dat, my brudder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said sump’n dat warn’t true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’at I said wuz dis, dat der wuz</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Twelve, <em>widout</em> includin’ you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh!⁠ ⁠… !⁠—</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="de-little-pickaninnys-gone-to-sleep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">De Little Pickaninny’s Gone to Sleep</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Cuddle down, ma honey, in yo’ bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go to sleep an’ res’ yo’ little head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Been a-kind o’ ailin’ all de day?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Didn’t have no sperit fu’ to play?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never min’; to-morrer, w’en you wek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daddy’s gwine to ride you on his bek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Roun’ an’ roun’ de cabin flo’ so fas’⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Der! He’s closed his little eyes at las’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>De little pickaninny’s gone to sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cuddled in his trundle bed so tiny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De little pickaninny’s gone to sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Closed his little eyes so bright an’ shiny.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hush! an’ w’en you walk across de flo’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Step across it very sof’ an’ slow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De shadders all aroun’ begin to creep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De little pickaninny’s gone to sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mandy, w’at’s de matter wid dat chile?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Keeps a-sighin’ ev’y little w’ile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems to me I heayhd him sorter groan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord! his little han’s am col’ as stone!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’at’s dat far-off light dat’s in his eyes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dat’s a light dey’s borrow’d f’om de skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fol’ his little han’s across his breas’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let de little pickaninny res’.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-rivals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Rivals</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Look heah! Is I evah tole you ’bout de curious way I won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anna Liza? Say, I nevah? Well heah’s how de thing wuz done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lize, you know, wuz mighty purty⁠—dat’s been forty yeahs ago⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’N ’cos to look at her dis minit, you might’n spose dat it wuz so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She wuz jes de greates’ ’traction in de county, ’n bless de lam’!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eveh darkey wuz a-co’tin, but it lay ’twix me an’ Sam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You know Sam. We both wuz wukin’ on de ole John Tompkin’s place.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’N evehbody wuz a-watchin’ t’see who’s gwine to win de race.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hee! hee! hee! Now you mus’ raley ’scuse me fu’ dis snickering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I jes can’t he’p f’om laffin’ eveh time I tells dis thing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ez I wuz a-sayin’, me an’ Sam wuked daily side by side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He a-studyin’, me a-studyin’, how to win Lize fu’ a bride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, de race was kinder equal, Lize wuz sorter on de fence;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sam he had de mostes dollars, an’ I had de mostes sense.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Things dey run along ’bout eben tel der come Big Meetin’ day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sam den thought, to win Miss Liza, he had foun’ de shoest way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ you talk about big meetin’s! None been like it ’fore nor sence;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Der wuz sich a crowd o’ people dat we had to put up tents.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Der wuz preachers f’om de Eas’, an’ ’der wuz preachers f’om de Wes’;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Folks had kilt mos’ eveh chicken, an’ wuz fattenin’ up de res’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gals had all got new w’ite dresses, an’ bought ribbens fu’ der hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fixin’ fu’ de openin’ Sunday, prayin’ dat de day’d be fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dat de Reveren’ Jasper Jones of Mount Moriah, it wuz ’low’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wuz to preach de openin’ sermon; so you know der wuz a crowd.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fu’ dat man wuz sho a preacher; had a voice jes like a bull;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So der ain’t no use in sayin’ dat de meetin’ house wuz full.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Folks wuz der f’om Big Pine Hollow, some come ’way f’om Muddy Creek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some come jes to stay fu’ Sunday, but de crowd stay’d thoo de week.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some come ridin’ in top-buggies wid de w’eels all painted red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pulled by mules dat run like rabbits, each one tryin’ to git ahead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Othah po’rer folks come drivin’ mules dat leaned up ’ginst de shaf’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hitched to broke-down, creaky wagons dat looked like dey’d drap in half.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But de bigges’ crowd come walkin’, wid der new shoes on der backs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Scuse wuz dat dey couldn’t weah em ’cause de heels wuz full o’ tacks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fact is, it’s a job for Job, a-trudgin’ in de sun an’ heat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down a long an’ dusty clay road wid yo’ shoes packed full o’ feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Cose dey stopt an’ put dem shoes on w’en dey got mos’ to de do’;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Den dey had to grin an’ bear it; dat tuk good religion sho.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I mos’ forgot ma story⁠—well at las’ dat Sunday came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it seemed dat evehbody, blin’ an’ deef, an’ halt an’ lame,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wuz out in de grove a-waitin’ fu’ de meetin’ to begin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ef dat crowd had got converted ’twould a been de end o’ sin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lize wuz der in all her glory, purty ez a big sunflowah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I kin ’member how she looked jes same ez ’twuz dis ve’y houah.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But to make ma story shorter, w’ile we wuz a-waitin’ der,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down de road we spied a cloud o’ dus’ dat filled up all de air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ ez we kep’ on a-lookin’, out f’om ’mongst dat ve’y cloud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sam, on Marse John’s big mule, Caesar, rode right slam up in de crowd.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You jes oughtah seed dat darkey, ’clar I like tah loss ma bref;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fu’ to use a common ’spression, he wuz ’bout nigh dressed to def.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had slipped to town dat Sat’day, didn’t let nobody know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ had car’yd all his cash an’ lef it in de dry goods sto’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had on a bran’ new suit o’ sto’-bought clo’es, a high plug hat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked ’zactly like a gen’man, tain’t no use d’nyin’ dat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en he got down off dat mule an’ bowed to Liza I could see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How she looked at him so ’dmirin’, an’ jes kinder glanced at me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Den I know’d to win dat gal, I sho would need some othah means</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Sides a-hangin’ ’round big meetin’ in a suit o’ homespun jeans.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en dey blow’d de ho’n fu’ preachin’, an’ de crowd all went inside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I jes felt ez doh I’d like tah go off in de woods an’ hide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So I stay’d outside de meetin’, set’n underneat’ de trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed to me I sot der ages, wid ma elbows on ma knees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en dey sung dat hymn, “Nobody knows de trouble dat I see,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seem’d to me dat dey wuz singin’ eveh word o’ it fu’ me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jes how long I might ha’ sot der, actin’ like a cussed fool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I don’t know, but it jes happen’d dat I look’d an’ saw Sam’s mule.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ de thought come slowly tricklin’ thoo ma brain right der an’ den,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dat, perhaps, wid some persuasion, I could make dat mule ma fren’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ I jes kep’ on a-thinkin’, an’ I kep’ a-lookin’ ’roun’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tel I spied two great big san’ spurs right close by me on de groun’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, I took dem spurs an’ put em underneat’ o’ Caesar’s saddle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So dey’d press down in his backbone soon ez Sam had got a-straddle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Twuz a pretty ticklish job, an’ jes ez soon ez it wuz done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I went back w’ere I wuz set’n fu’ to wait an’ see de fun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Purty soon heah come de people, jes a-swa’min’ out de do’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talkin’ ’bout de “pow’ful sermon”⁠—“nevah heah’d de likes befo’.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How de “monahs fell convicted” jes de same ez lumps o’ lead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How dat some wuz still a-layin’ same es if dey’d been struck dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ to rectly heah come Liza, Sam a-strollin’ by her side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ it seem’d to me dat darky’s smile wuz ’bout twelve inches wide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look to me like he had swelled up to ’bout twice his natchul size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ I heah’d him say, “I’d like to be yo’ ’scort to-night, Miss Lize.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Den he made a bow jes like he’s gwine to make a speech in school,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ walk’d jes ez proud ez Marse John over to untie his mule,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’en Sam’s foot fust touched de stirrup he know’d der wuz sump’n wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Cuz de mule begin to tremble an’ to sorter side along.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wen Sam raised his weight to mount him, Caesar bristled up his ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en Sam sot down in de saddle, den dat mule cummenced to rear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An’ he reared an’ pitched an’ caper’d, only ez a mule kin pitch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tel he flung Sam clean f’om off him, landed him squar’ in a ditch.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wen dat darky riz, well raly, I felt kinder bad fu’ him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had bust dem cheap sto’ britches f’om de center to de rim.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All de plug hat dat wuz lef’ him wuz de brim aroun’ his neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smear’d wid mud f’om top to bottom, well, he wuz a sight, I ’speck.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wuz de folks a-laffin’? Well, su’, I jes sholy thought dey’d bus’;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wuz Sam laffin’? ’Twuz de fus’ time dat I evah heah’d him cuss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>W’ile Sam slink’d off thoo de backwoods I walk’d slowly home wid Lize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>W’en I axed her jes one question der wuz sump’n in her eyes</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Made me know der wuz no need o’ any answer bein’ said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ I felt jes like de whole world wuz a-spinnin’ ’roun’ ma head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So I said, “Lize, w’en we marry, mus’ I weah some sto’-bought clo’es?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She says, “Jeans is good enough fu’ any po’ folks, heaben knows!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="listen-lord" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Listen Lord</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">A Prayer</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>O Lord, we come this morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knee-bowed and body-bent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before thy throne of grace.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Lord⁠—this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bow our hearts beneath our knees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And our knees in some lonesome valley.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We come this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like empty pitchers to a full fountain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With no merits of our own.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Lord⁠—open up a window of heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lean out far over the battlements of glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And listen this morning.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord, have mercy on proud and dying sinners⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners hanging over the mouth of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who seem to love their distance well.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord⁠—ride by this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mount your milk-white horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ride-a this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in your ride, ride by old hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ride by the dingy gates of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stop poor sinners in their headlong plunge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now, O Lord, this man of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who breaks the bread of life this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shadow him in the hollow of thy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And keep him out of the gunshot of the devil.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take him, Lord⁠—this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wash him with hyssop inside and out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hang him up and drain him dry of sin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pin his ear to the wisdom-post,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And make his words sledge hammers of truth⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beating on the iron heart of sin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord God, this morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put his eye to the telescope of eternity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let him look upon the paper walls of time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord, turpentine his imagination,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put perpetual motion in his arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fill him full of the dynamite of thy power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anoint him all over with the oil of thy salvation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And set his tongue on fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now, O Lord⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I’ve done drunk my last cup of sorrow⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I’ve been called everything but a child of God⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I’m done travelling up the rough side of the mountain⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O⁠—Mary’s Baby⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I start down the steep and slippery steps of death⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When this old world begins to rock beneath my feet⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lower me to my dusty grave in peace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wait for that great gittin’ up morning⁠—Amen.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-creation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Creation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>And God stepped out on space,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he looked around and said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m lonely⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll make me a world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And far as the eye of God could see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Darkness covered everything,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blacker than a hundred midnights</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down in a cypress swamp.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God smiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the light broke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the darkness rolled up on one side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the light stood shining on the other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God said: That’s good!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God reached out and took the light in his hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God rolled the light around in his hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until he made the sun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he set that sun a-blazing in the heavens.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the light that was left from making the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God gathered it up in a shining ball</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flung it against the darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spangling the night with the moon and stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then down between</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The darkness and the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hurled the world;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God said: That’s good!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God himself stepped down⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun was on his right hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the moon was on his left;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stars were clustered about his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the earth was under his feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God walked, and where he trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His footsteps hollowed the valleys out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bulged the mountains up.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then he stopped and looked and saw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the earth was hot and barren.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So God stepped over to the edge of the world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he spat out the seven seas⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He batted his eyes, and the lightnings flashed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He clapped his hands, and the thunders rolled⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the waters above the earth came down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cooling waters came down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the green grass sprouted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the little red flowers blossomed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pine tree pointed his finger to the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the oak spread out his arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lakes cuddled down in the hollows of the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the rivers ran down to the sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God smiled again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the rainbow appeared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And curled itself around his shoulder.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God raised his arm and he waved his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the sea and over the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And He said: Bring forth! Bring forth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quicker than God could drop his hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fishes and fowls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And beasts and birds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swam the rivers and the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Roamed the forests and the woods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And split the air with their wings.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God said, That’s good!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God walked around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God looked around</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On all that he had made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked at his sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he looked at his moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he looked at his little stars;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked on his world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all its living things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God said: I’m lonely still.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God sat down⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the side of a hill where he could think;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By a deep, wide river he sat down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his head in his hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God thought and thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he thought: I’ll make me a man!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Up from the bed of the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God scooped the clay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And by the bank of the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He kneeled him down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there the great God Almighty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who lit the sun and fixed it in the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who flung the stars to the most far corner of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who rounded the earth in the middle of his hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Great God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a mammy bending over her baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kneeled down in the dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Toiling over a lump of clay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he shaped it in his own image;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then into it he blew the breath of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And man became a living soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amen. Amen.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-prodigal-son" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Prodigal Son</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your arm’s too short to box with God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Jesus spake in a parable, and he said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A certain man had two sons.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus didn’t give this man a name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his name is God Almighty.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Jesus didn’t call these sons by name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ev’ry young man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ev’rywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is one of these two sons.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the younger son said to his father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said: Father, divide up the property,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give me my portion now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the father with tears in his eyes said: Son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t leave your father’s house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the boy was stubborn in his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And haughty in his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he took his share of his father’s goods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And went into a far-off country.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There comes a time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There comes a time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When ev’ry young man looks out from his father’s house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Longing for that far-off country.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the young man journeyed on his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said to himself as he travelled along:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This sure is an easy road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothing like the rough furrows behind my father’s plow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smooth and easy is the road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That leads to hell and destruction.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down grade all the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The further you travel, the faster you go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No need to trudge and sweat and toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just slip and slide and slip and slide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till you bang up against hell’s iron gate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the younger son kept travelling along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till at night-time he came to a city.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the city was bright in the night-time like day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The streets all crowded with people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brass bands and string bands a-playing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ev’rywhere the young man turned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was singing and laughing and dancing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he stopped a passer-by and he said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell me what city is this?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the passer-by laughed and said: Don’t you know?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is Babylon, Babylon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That great city of Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come on, my friend, and go along with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the young man joined the crowd.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’re never lonesome in Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can always join a crowd in Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young man⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can never be alone in Babylon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone with your Jesus in Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can never find a place, a lonesome place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lonesome place to go down on your knees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And talk with your God, in Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’re always in a crowd in Babylon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the young man went with his new-found friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bought himself some brand new clothes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he spent his days in the drinking dens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swallowing the fires of hell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he spent his nights in the gambling dens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Throwing dice with the devil for his soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he met up with the women of Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, the women of Babylon!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dressed in yellow and purple and scarlet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loaded with rings and earrings and bracelets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their lips like a honeycomb dripping with honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perfumed and sweet-smelling like a jasmine flower;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the jasmine smell of the Babylon women</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got in his nostrils and went to his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he wasted his substance in riotous living,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the evening, in the black and dark of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the sweet-sinning women of Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they stripped him of his money,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they stripped him of his clothes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they left him broke and ragged</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the streets of Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the young man joined another crowd⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beggars and lepers of Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he went to feeding swine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he was hungrier than the hogs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He got down on his belly in the mire and mud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ate the husks with the hogs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not a hog was too low to turn up his nose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the man in the mire of Babylon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the young man came to himself⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He came to himself and said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my father’s house are many mansions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ev’ry servant in his house has bread to eat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ev’ry servant in his house has a place to sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will arise and go to my father.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And his father saw him afar off,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he ran up the road to meet him.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He put clean clothes upon his back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a golden chain around his neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He made a feast and killed the fatted calf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And invited the neighbors in.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh-o-oh, sinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you’re mingling with the crowd in Babylon⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drinking the wine of Babylon⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Running with the women of Babylon⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You forget about God, and you laugh at Death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today you’ve got the strength of a bull in your neck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the strength of a bear in your arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But some o’ these days, some o’ these days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll have a hand-to-hand struggle with bony Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Death is bound to win.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young man, come away from Babylon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That hell-border city of Babylon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leave the dancing and gambling of Babylon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wine and whiskey of Babylon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hot-mouthed women of Babylon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fall down on your knees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say in your heart:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will arise and go to my Father.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="go-down-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Go Down Death</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">A Funeral Sermon</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Weep not, weep not,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She is not dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s resting in the bosom of Jesus.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heart-broken husband⁠—weep no more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grief-stricken son⁠—weep no more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Left-lonesome daughter⁠—weep no more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s only just gone home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Day before yesterday morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God was looking down from his great, high heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Looking down on all his children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his eye fell on Sister Caroline,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tossing on her bed of pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God’s big heart was touched with pity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the everlasting pity.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God sat back on his throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he commanded that tall, bright angel standing at his right hand:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Call me Death!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that tall, bright angel cried in a voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That broke like a clap of thunder:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Call Death!⁠—Call Death!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the echo sounded down the streets of heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till it reached away back to that shadowy place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Death waits with his pale, white horses.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Death heard the summons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he leaped on his fastest horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pale as a sheet in the moonlight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up the golden street Death galloped,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hoofs of his horse struck fire from the gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they didn’t make no sound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up Death rode to the Great White Throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And waited for God’s command.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God said: Go down, Death, go down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go down to Savannah, Georgia,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down in Yamacraw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And find Sister Caroline.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s borne the burden and heat of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s labored long in my vineyard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she’s tired⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s weary⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go down, Death, and bring her to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Death didn’t say a word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he loosed the reins on his pale, white horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he clamped the spurs to his bloodless sides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And out and down he rode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through heaven’s pearly gates,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Past suns and moons and stars;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Death rode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the foam from his horse was like a comet in the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Death rode,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaving the lightning’s flash behind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Straight on down he came.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While we were watching round her bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She turned her eyes and looked away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She saw what we couldn’t see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She saw Old Death. She saw Old Death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coming like a falling star.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Death didn’t frighten Sister Caroline;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked to her like a welcome friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she whispered to us: I’m going home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she smiled and closed her eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Death took her up like a baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she lay in his icy arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she didn’t feel no chill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Death began to ride again⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up beyond the evening star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out beyond the morning star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the glittering light of glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On to the Great White Throne.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there he laid Sister Caroline</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the loving breast of Jesus.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Jesus took his own hand and wiped away her tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he smoothed the furrows from her face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the angels sang a little song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Jesus rocked her in his arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kept a-saying: Take your rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take your rest, take your rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weep not⁠—weep not,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She is not dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s resting in the bosom of Jesus.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="noah-built-the-ark" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Noah Built the Ark</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the cool of the day⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God was walking⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around in the Garden of Eden.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And except for the beasts, eating in the fields,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And except for the birds, flying through the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The garden looked like it was deserted.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God called out and said: Adam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adam, where art thou?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Adam, with Eve behind his back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came out from where he was hiding.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God said: Adam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What hast thou done?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast eaten of the tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Adam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his head hung down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blamed it on the woman.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For after God made the first man Adam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He breathed a sleep upon him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he took out of Adam one of his ribs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And out of that rib made woman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God put the man and woman together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the beautiful Garden of Eden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With nothing to do the whole day long</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But play all around in the garden.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God called Adam before him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said to him:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen now, Adam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of all the fruit in the garden you can eat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Except of the tree of knowledge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the day thou eatest of that tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou shalt surely die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then pretty soon along came Satan.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Satan came like a snake in the grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To try out his tricks on the woman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I imagine I can see Old Satan now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A-sidling up to the woman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I imagine the first word Satan said was:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eve, you’re surely good looking.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I imagine he brought her a present, too⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, if there was such a thing in those ancient days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He brought her a looking-glass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Eve and Satan got friendly⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then Eve got to walking on shaky ground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t ever get friendly with Satan.⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they started to talk about the garden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Satan said: Tell me, how do you like</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fruit on the nice, tall, blooming tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Standing in the middle of the garden?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Eve said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That’s the forbidden fruit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which if we eat we die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Satan laughed a devilish little laugh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said to the woman: God’s fooling you, Eve;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That’s the sweetest fruit in the garden.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know you can eat that forbidden fruit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I know that you will not die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Eve looked at the forbidden fruit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it was red and ripe and juicy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Eve took a taste, and she offered it to Adam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Adam wasn’t able to refuse;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he took a bite, and they both sat down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ate the forbidden fruit.⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back there, six thousand years ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man first fell by woman⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord, and he’s doing the same today.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And that’s how sin got into this world.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And man, as he multiplied on the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Increased in wickedness and sin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He went on down from sin to sin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From wickedness to wickedness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Murder and lust and violence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All kinds of fornications,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the earth was corrupt and rotten with flesh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An abomination in God’s sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God was angry at the sins of men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God got sorry that he ever made man.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said: I will destroy him.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll bring down judgment on him with a flood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll destroy ev’rything on the face of the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man, beasts and birds, and creeping things.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he did⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ev’rything but the fishes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Noah was a just and righteous man.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Noah walked and talked with God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, one day, God said to Noah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said: Noah, build thee an ark.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Build it out of gopher wood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Build it good and strong.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pitch it within and pitch it without.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And build it according to the measurements</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I will give to thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Build it for you and all your house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to save the seeds of life on earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I’m going to send down a mighty flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To destroy this wicked world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Noah commenced to work on the ark.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he worked for about one hundred years.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ev’ry day the crowd came round</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make fun of Old Man Noah.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they laughed and they said: Tell us, old man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where do you expect to sail that boat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up here amongst the hills?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Noah kept on a-working.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ev’ry once in a while Old Noah would stop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’d lay down his hammer and lay down his saw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And take his staff in hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with his long, white beard a-flying in the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gospel light a-gleaming from his eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Noah would preach God’s word:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sinners, oh, sinners,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Repent, for the judgment is at hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners, oh, sinners,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Repent, for the time is drawing nigh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God’s wrath is gathering in the sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God’s a-going to rain down rain on rain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God’s a-going to loosen up the bottom of the deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And drown this wicked world.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners, repent while yet there’s time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For God to change his mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some smart young fellow said: This old man’s</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got water on the brain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the crowd all laughed⁠—Lord, but didn’t they laugh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they paid no mind to Noah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But kept on sinning just the same.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One bright and sunny morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not a cloud nowhere to be seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God said to Noah: Get in the ark!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Noah and his folks all got in the ark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the animals, two by two,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A he and a she marched in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then God said: Noah, Bar the door!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Noah barred the door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And a little black spot begun to spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a bottle of ink spilling over the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the thunder rolled like a rumbling drum;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the lightning jumped from pole to pole;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it rained down rain, rain, rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great God, but didn’t it rain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For forty days and forty nights</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waters poured down and waters gushed up;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dry land turned to sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the old ark-a she begun to ride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The old ark-a she begun to rock;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners came a-running down to the ark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners came a-swimming all round the ark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners pleaded and sinners prayed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners wept and sinners wailed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Noah’d done barred the door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the trees and the hills and the mountain tops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slipped underneath the waters.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the old ark sailed that lonely sea⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For twelve long months she sailed that sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sea without a shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the waters begun to settle down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ark touched bottom on the tallest peak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of old Mount Ararat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dove brought Noah the olive leaf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Noah when he saw that the grass was green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Opened up the ark, and they all climbed down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The folks, and the animals, two by two,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down from the mount to the valley.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Noah wept and fell on his face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hugged and kissed the dry ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God hung out his rainbow cross the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said to Noah: That’s my sign!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more will I judge the world by flood⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Next time I’ll rain down fire.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-crucifixion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Crucifixion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Jesus, my gentle Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walking in the dark of the Garden⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Garden of Gethsemane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying to the three disciples:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sorrow is in my soul⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even unto death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tarry ye here a little while,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And watch with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jesus, my burdened Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Praying in the dark of the Garden⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Garden of Gethsemane.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying: Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This bitter cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This bitter cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let it pass from me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jesus, my sorrowing Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweat like drops of blood upon his brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talking with his Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the three disciples slept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying: Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not as I will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not as I will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let thy will be done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, look at black-hearted Judas⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sneaking through the dark of the Garden⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leading his crucifying mob.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, God!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strike him down!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why <i>don’t</i> you strike him down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before he plants his traitor’s kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon my Jesus’ cheek?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they take my blameless Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they drag him to the Governor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the mighty Roman Governor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great Pilate seated in his hall⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great Pilate on his judgment seat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said: In this man I find no fault.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I find no fault in him.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pilate washed his hands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they cried out, saying:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crucify him!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crucify him!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crucify him!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His blood be on our heads.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they beat my loving Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They spit on my precious Jesus;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They dressed him up in a purple robe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They put a crown of thorns upon his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they pressed it down⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, they pressed it down⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they mocked my sweet King Jesus.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Up Golgotha’s rugged road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see my Jesus go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see him sink beneath the load,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see my drooping Jesus sink.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then they laid hold on Simon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black Simon, yes, black Simon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They put the cross on Simon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Simon bore the cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On Calvary, on Calvary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They crucified my Jesus.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They nailed him to the cruel tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hammer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hammer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hammer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rang through Jerusalem’s streets.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hammer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hammer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hammer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rang through Jerusalem’s streets.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jesus, my lamb-like Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shivering as the nails go through his hands;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus, my lamb-like Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shivering as the nails go through his feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus, my darling Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Groaning as the Roman spear plunged in his side;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus, my darling Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Groaning as the blood came spurting from his wound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, look how they done my Jesus.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weeping Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sees her poor little Jesus on the cross.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weeping Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sees her sweet, baby Jesus on the cruel cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hanging between two thieves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Jesus, my lonesome Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Called out once more to his Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why hast thou forsaken me?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he drooped his head and died.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the veil of the temple was split in two,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The midday sun refused to shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thunder rumbled and the lightning wrote</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An unknown language in the sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What a day! Lord, what a day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When my blessed Jesus died.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, I tremble, yes, I tremble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It causes me to tremble, tremble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I think how Jesus died;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Died on the steeps of Calvary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How Jesus died for sinners,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinners like you and me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-my-people-go" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Let My People Go</h2>
			<p>
				<span>And God called Moses from the burning bush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He called in a still, small voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said: Moses⁠—Moses⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses listened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he answered and said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord, here am I.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the voice in the bush said: Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Draw not nigh, take off your shoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you’re standing on holy ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses stopped where he stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses took off his shoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses looked at the burning bush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he heard the voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he saw no man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God again spoke to Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he spoke in a voice of thunder:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the Lord God Almighty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the God of thy fathers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the God of Abraham,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Isaac and of Jacob.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses hid his face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God said to Moses:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve seen the awful suffering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of my people down in Egypt.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve watched their hard oppressors,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their overseers and drivers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The groans of my people have filled my ears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I can’t stand it no longer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So I’m come down to deliver them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of the land of Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I will bring them out of that land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the land of Canaan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Therefore, Moses, go down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go down into Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell Old Pharaoh</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To let my people go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Moses said: Lord, who am I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make a speech before Pharaoh?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For, Lord, you know I’m slow of tongue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But God said: I will be thy mouth and I will be thy tongue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Therefore, Moses, go down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go down yonder into Egypt land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell Old Pharaoh</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To let my people go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Moses with his rod in hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went down and said to Pharaoh:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus saith the Lord God of Israel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let my people go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Pharaoh looked at Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He stopped still and looked at Moses;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said to Moses: Who is this Lord?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know all the gods of Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I know no God of Israel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So go back, Moses, and tell your God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will not let this people go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poor Old Pharaoh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows all the knowledge of Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet never knew⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The one and the living God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor Old Pharaoh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s got all the power of Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he’s going to try</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To test his strength</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the might of the great Jehovah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the might of the Lord God of Hosts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lord mighty in battle.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God, sitting high up in his heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laughed at poor Old Pharaoh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Pharaoh called the overseers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pharaoh called the drivers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said: Put heavier burdens still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the backs of the Hebrew Children.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the people chode with Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they cried out: Look here, Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve been to Pharaoh, but look and see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What Pharaoh’s done to us now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses was troubled in mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But God said: Go again, Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and your brother, Aaron,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say once more to Pharaoh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let my people go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses and Aaron with their rods in hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Worked many signs and wonders.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Pharaoh called for his magic men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they worked wonders, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So Pharaohs’ heart was hardened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he would not,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, he would not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let God’s people go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God rained down plagues on Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plagues of frogs and lice and locusts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plagues of blood and boils and darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And other plagues besides.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ev’ry time God moved the plague</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Pharaoh’s heart was hardened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he would not,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, he would not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let God’s people go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses was troubled in mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the Lord said: Listen, Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The God of Israel will not be mocked,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just one more witness of my power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll give hard-hearted Pharaoh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This very night about midnight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll pass over Egypt land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my righteous wrath will I pass over,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And smite their first-born dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God that night passed over.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a cry went up out of Egypt.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pharaoh rose in the middle of the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he sent in a hurry for Moses;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he said: Go forth from among my people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and all the Hebrew Children;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take your goods and take your flocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And get away from the land of Egypt.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, right then, Moses led them out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all their goods and all their flocks;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God went on before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A guiding pillar of cloud by day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a pillar of fire by night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they journeyed on in the wilderness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And came down to the Red Sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, in the morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They missed the Hebrew Children.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Four hundred years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Four hundred years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’d held them down in Egypt land.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Held them under the driver’s lash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Working without money and without price.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it might have been Pharaoh’s wife that said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pharaoh⁠—look what you’ve done.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You let those Hebrew Children go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And who’s going to serve us now?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who’s going to make our bricks and mortar?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who’s going to plant and plow our corn?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who’s going to get up in the chill of the morning?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And who’s going to work in the blazing sun?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pharaoh, tell me that!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Pharaoh called his generals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the generals called the captains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the captains called the soldiers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they hitched up all the chariots,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Six hundred chosen chariots of war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And twenty-four hundred horses.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the chariots all were full of men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With swords and shields</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shiny spears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And battle bows and arrows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pharaoh and his army</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pursued the Hebrew Children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the edge of the Red Sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, the Children of Israel, looking back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw Pharaoh’s army coming.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the rumble of the chariots was like a thunder storm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the whirring of the wheels was like a rushing wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dust from the horses made a cloud that darked the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glittering of the spears was like lightnings in the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the Children of Israel all lost faith,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The children of Israel all lost hope;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep Red Sea in front of them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pharaoh’s host behind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they mumbled and grumbled among themselves:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were there no graves in Egypt?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they wailed aloud to Moses and said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slavery in Egypt was better than to come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To die here in this wilderness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Moses said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stand still! Stand still!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see the Lord’s salvation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the Lord God of Israel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will not forsake his people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lord will break the chariots,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lord will break the horsemen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’ll break great Egypt’s sword and shield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The battle bows and arrows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This day he’ll make proud Pharaoh know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who is the God of Israel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Moses lifted up his rod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the Red Sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God with a blast of his nostrils</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blew the waters apart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the waves rolled back and stood up in a pile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left a path through the middle of the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dry as the sands of the desert.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Children of Israel all crossed over</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On to the other side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Pharaoh saw them crossing dry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He dashed on in behind them⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Pharaoh got about half way cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God unlashed the waters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the waves rushed back together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pharaoh and all his army got lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all his host got drownded.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Moses sang and Miriam danced,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the people shouted for joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God led the Hebrew Children on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till they reached the promised land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Listen!⁠—Listen!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All you sons of Pharaoh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who do you think can hold God’s people</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the Lord God himself has said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let my people go?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-judgment-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Judgment Day</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In that great day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>People, in that great day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God’s a-going to rain down fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God’s a-going to sit in the middle of the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To judge the quick and the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Early one of these mornings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God’s a-going to call for Gabriel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That tall, bright angel, Gabriel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God’s a-going to say to him: Gabriel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blow your silver trumpet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wake the living nations.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Gabriel’s going to ask him: Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How loud must I blow it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God’s a-going to tell him: Gabriel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blow it calm and easy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then putting one foot on the mountain top,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the other in the middle of the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gabriel’s going to stand and blow his horn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wake the living nations.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God’s a-going to say to him: Gabriel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once more blow your silver trumpet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wake the nations underground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Gabriel’s going to ask him: Lord</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How loud must I blow it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God’s a-going to tell him: Gabriel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like seven peals of thunder.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the tall, bright angel, Gabriel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will put one foot on the battlements of heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the other on the steps of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blow that silver trumpet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he shakes old hell’s foundations.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I feel Old Earth a-shuddering⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I see the graves a-bursting⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I hear a sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A blood-chilling sound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What sound is that I hear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the clicking together of the dry bones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bone to bone⁠—the dry bones.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I see coming out of the bursting graves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And marching up from the valley of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The army of the dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the living and the dead in the twinkling of an eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are caught up in the middle of the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before God’s judgment bar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh-o-oh, sinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where will you stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that great day when God’s a-going to rain down fire?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, you gambling man⁠—where will you stand?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You whore-mongering man⁠—where will you stand?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Liars and backsliders⁠—where will you stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that great day when God’s a-going to rain down fire?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And God will divide the sheep from the goats,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The one on the right, the other on the left.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to them on the right God’s a-going to say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enter into my kingdom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And those who’ve come through great tribulations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They will enter in⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clothed in spotless white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With starry crowns upon their heads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And silver slippers on their feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And harps within their hands;⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And two by two they’ll walk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up and down the golden street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feasting on the milk and honey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing new songs of Zion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chattering with the angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All around the Great White Throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And to them on the left God’s a-going to say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Depart from me into everlasting darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down into the bottomless pit.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wicked like lumps of lead will start to fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Headlong for seven days and nights they’ll fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plumb into the big, black, red-hot mouth of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Belching out fire and brimstone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their cries like howling, yelping dogs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will go up with the fire and smoke from hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But God will stop his ears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Too late, sinner! Too late!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Good-bye, sinner! Good-bye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In hell, sinner! In hell!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond the reach of the love of God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I hear a voice, crying, crying:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time shall be no more!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time shall be no more!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time shall be no more!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun will go out like a candle in the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The moon will turn to dripping blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stars will fall like cinders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sea will burn like tar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the earth shall melt away and be dissolved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sky will roll up like a scroll.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a wave of his hand God will blot out time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And start the wheel of eternity.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sinner, oh, sinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where will you stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that great day when God’s a-going to rain down fire?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
